[docs] Trash (#43049)
metabase/metabase: docs/exploration-and-organization/delete-and-restore.md

Deleting an item will affect any [dashboards](../dashboards/introduction.md), [subscriptions](../dashboards/subscriptions.md), or [SQL questions](../questions/native-editor/referencing-saved-questions-in-queries.md) that depend on that item, so be careful!

## See items in Trash

You can find Trash at the bottom of the left navigation sidebar below all the collections:

![Trash](./images/trash.png)

You can think of Trash as a special type of collection. In **Trash**, you can see deleted items from the collections that you have [Curate permissions](../permissions/collections.md#collection-permission-levels) on. You can order deleted items by type (questions, dashboards, etc), time it was deleted, and who deleted it.

You;'ll be able to see the contents of deleted dashboards, questions, and models in Trash, but you won't be able to modify them.

## Search in Trash

You can use [advanced search](./exploration.md) with a "Search items in trash" toggle to find items in Trash

## Deleting and restoring items

> To move an item (question, dashboard, model, or collection) to Trash:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To move an item (question, dashboard, model, or collection) to the Trash:
```

> 1. Go to the question you want to delete;

Reviewer: Think we need to to also talk about trashing items from the collection view, in particular bulk trashing.

2. Click on the three dots menu;
3. Select "Move to trash".

> When a collection is deleted, all items in the collection are deleted as well.

You'll still be able to see the contents of the items in Trash, but you won't be able to modify them or use them as a source for other questions.

To restore an item:

1. Go to Trash;
2. Find the item you'd like to delete. You can sort deleted items to make it easier to find the item, or [search for your question in Trash](#search-in-trash);
3. Click on the checkbox next to the item to select it;
4. Select "Restore".

> Restoring a collection will also restore all the items from that collection.

If the item's original parent collection has been deleted as well, you won't see an option to **Restore**. You'll still be able to move the it from Trash to a different collection.

## How deleting an item affects related items

Deleting or restoring an item will affect other items that depend on that item.

### Questions

> 

Reviewer: Maybe just a intro sentence for each table for more context? Something like:  "What happens to related items when you delete a question?"

| --------------- | -------------------------- | -------------------------- | -------- |
| Subscriptions   | Deactivated                | Deactivated                | Restored |
| Custom homepage | Revert to default homepage | Revert to default homepage | Restored |

### Model

| Affected item                      | In Trash       | Permanently deleted                | Restored       |
| ---------------------------------- | -------------- | ---------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Question based on deleted question | Works normally | Breaks with `Card not found` error | Reactivated    |
| Dashboard                          | Card removed   | Card removed                       | Card restored  |
| Action                             | Works normally | Deleted                            | Works normally |

## Collections

| Affected item                                  | In Trash | Permanently deleted | Restored |
| ---------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| All items and subcollecitons in the collection | In Trash | Permanently deleted | Restored |

## Permanently deleting items

> Moving an item to Trash is not permanent: you'll be able to restore it to the original parent collection, or move it to a non-deleted collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Moving an item to Trash doesn't delete the item completely: you'll be able to restore the item from the Trash.
```
Slight clarification.

To permanently delete an item:

1. Go to Trash;
2. Find the item you'd like to delete;
3. Click on the checkbox next to the collection to select it;

> 4. Select "Permanently delete".

Reviewer: Maybe some warning about how you won't be able to recover the item. It's lost to the void.

## Deleting and restoring events and timelines

Events and timelines can be archived and unarchived. See [Archiving Events and timelines](events-and-timelines.md#archiving-timelines).

You won't see archived Events and Timelines in Trash. To see archived events and timelines, you need to [access them from the collection's page](events-and-timelines.md#view-archived-events-and-timelines).

## Deleting and restoring SQL snippets

SQL snippets can be archived and unarchived. See [Archiving SQL snippets](../questions/native-editor/sql-snippets.md#archiving-snippets).

> You won't see archived SQL snippets in Trash. To see archived SQL Snippets, you need to [access them from the cSnippet menu](../questions/native-editor/sql-snippets.md#snippet-menu).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You won't see archived SQL snippets in Trash. To see archived SQL Snippets, you need to [access them from the Snippet menu](../questions/native-editor/sql-snippets.md#snippet-menu).
```

Moving an item to Trash doesn't delete the item completely: you'll be able to restore the item from the Trash.

To permanently delete an item:

1. Go to Trash;
2. Find the item you'd like to delete;
3. Click on the checkbox next to the collection to select it;
4. Select "Permanently delete". If you click this button, you won't be able to recover the item. It'll be lost to the void.

## Deleting and restoring events and timelines

Events and timelines can be archived and unarchived. See [Archiving Events and timelines](events-and-timelines.md#archiving-timelines).

You won't see archived Events and Timelines in Trash. To see archived events and timelines, you need to [access them from the collection's page](events-and-timelines.md#view-archived-events-and-timelines).

## Deleting and restoring SQL snippets

SQL snippets can be archived and unarchived. See [Archiving SQL snippets](../questions/native-editor/sql-snippets.md#archiving-snippets).

You won't see archived SQL snippets in Trash. To see archived SQL Snippets, you need to [access them from the Snippet menu](../questions/native-editor/sql-snippets.md#snippet-menu).

## Deleting metrics and segments

> Metrics and events can be retired. See [Retiring Metrics and Segments](../data-modeling/segments-and-metrics.md#editing-and-retiring-segments-and-metrics).

Reviewer 2: Hi @alexyarosh, this link is failing the `yarn run docs-lint-links` stage for me in CI.

Unclear to me what the link target should be. Did you forget to `git add` the `segments-and-metrics.md` file, or should the link maybe point to `segments.md` instead?

Reviewer 2: Link to the CI failure for reference

https://github.com/metabase/metabase/actions/runs/11227506788/job/31245666789

Author: @appleby done #48478

Reviewer 2: Ah makes, sense. Thanks!

---
title: Delete and recover items
---

# Delete and recover items

Sometimes your questions, dashboards, or models outlive their usefulness. You can send outdated items to **Trash**.

![Move to trash](./images/move-to-trash.png)

> Items in **Trash** won't show up in search, and you won't be able to use them to create new questions and dashboards.

Reviewer: You'll need to note here that you can search for items in the trash, if you need to.

## Deleting and restoring models

To delete a model:

1. Go to the model you want to delete;
2. Click on the three dots menu;
3. Select "Move to trash".

You'll still be able to see the model in Trash, but you won't be able to modify it.

To restore a model:

1. Go to Trash;
2. Find the model you'd like to delete;
3. Click on the three dot menu;
4. Select "Restore".

Deleting a model will affect other items that depend on that model:

- **Derived questions**: If a trashed model was used as data source for a Query Builder question, or was [referenced in a SQL question](../questions/native-editor/referencing-saved-questions-in-queries.md), then the derived questions will continue to work while the model is in Trash. If the model is [permanently deleted](#permanently-deleting-items), the derived questions will stop working, and you'll get a `Card does not exist` error.

- **Actions**: If a model is trashed, the actions in this model will still work. If a model is permanently deleted, the actions in the deleted model will be deleted as well.

> - **Dashboards**: If a model is included as a card in any dashboards, then the card will be removed from those dashboards when the model is moved to Trash. If the model is restored from Trash, its card will be restored to the dashboards that used to contain it.

Reviewer: The text is confusing. maybe a table? Columns are: Model in collection, Trash, permanently deleted.

So something like: 

**Item** |**In trash**|**Permanently deleted**|**Restored**
-----|-----|-----|-----
Question based on model|Works as normal|Breaks|Works as normal
Dashboard that includes model|Model card is removed from the dashboard| Model card is removed from the dashboard |Card is restored to the dashboard
